We can welcome Mr. Healy’s treatment of a difficult and obscure
episode in the history of Ulster as on the whole impartial, and
based on a judicial reading of a vast accumulation of documentary
evidence.... In his capacity as historical detective he is
fair-minded to a degree, which would amaze us if we were not so well
acquainted with the well-tempered quality of an intellect that for
subtlety and power and a dispassionate coolness is not surpassed
by that of any Irishman living.... The wonderful net of intrigue
by which all this was contrived has been carefully unravelled
by Mr. Healy with a pertinaceous ingenuity worthy of Sherlock
Holmes.”—_Morning Post._

“Mr. Healy has accomplished a difficult task with considerable
success. The result of his labours is an absorbing book.... The
author has succeeded in weaving a romantic story out of the dry
material of official records and legal documents.”—_Athenæum._

“The story that Mr. Healy tells has something of the flavour of
historical romance.... Mr. Healy’s method of argument on the main
issue is calm and temperate.... A wonderful effort in legal and
historical research.”—_London Daily Telegraph._

“It is a truism that only the busiest men have any time to spare,
and it is proved again by the publication of an elaborate historical
study by Mr. T. M. Healy, the famous Irish M.P., who is as
entertaining and brilliant with his pen as he is in speech. Mr. Healy
tells his story with enthusiasm and thoroughness.”—_London Express._

“Mr. Healy is a lawyer of original genius who, almost more frequently
than any other man of his time, has performed the unexpected. He has
done so once again in this extraordinary book, which tells, with many
touches of eloquence and here and there a characteristic sting, the
tangled story of a legal dispute.... A work of argument and legal
history written with sustained eloquence and frequent felicity.... A
task which only a passionate sense of duty and determined doggedness
could have achieved. As the author in his picturesque manner puts
it, the scent was often stale, but despite the difficulties and
uncertainties that confronted him, he has achieved what he sought,
and presents the result to the expert and the curious.”—_Outlook
(London)._

“Mr. Healy constructs a story of remarkable interest. By dipping
into it here and there some instructive glimpses will be obtained
of the fashion in which Irish history was made in bygone
centuries.”—_Observer (London)._

“It exhibits vividly enough some of the less favourable aspects of
past Irish administration, and it will serve the writer’s purpose of
stimulating a considerable amount of sympathy for the standpoint of
his contentions.”—_Pall Mall Gazette._

“Those who love to extract information from Blue Books will revel
in this volume of strange facts.... It would be a needless task to
expend words of praise upon this fair-minded volume, prepared by one
of the subtlest intellects of our time.”—_Review of Reviews._

“‘Stolen Waters’ has to be welcomed as a monument of disinterested
advocacy.... Mr. Healy’s vivid, yet archaic, style; at all manner
of odd points the unusual word flashes out at you, and relieves the
gloom of technical narration.”—_Truth._

“Of the utmost value.... Mr. Healy is to be congratulated on the
manner in which he has fulfilled this work.”—_Tablet._

“A notable volume, ‘Stolen Waters.’ The book, which was noticed at
length in the leader columns of this paper, is a monument of patient
research.”—_Manchester Guardian._

“A series of remarkable investigations.... The book has every
appearance of minute accuracy in detail, and gives proof of a
remarkable skill in marshalling evidence. We shall be surprised if
his conclusions are successfully challenged.”—_Glasgow Herald._

“It is a tribute to the skill of Mr. Healy that he has made so
interesting a narrative out of a record of legal chicanery. As told
by him, the history of the title in the seventeenth century is an
amazing story of fraud in high places.”—_Scotsman._

“Written in the pungent style of which Mr. Healy is so great a
master, the book is eminently readable throughout.... This erudite
and eloquent volume.”—_Dundee Advertiser._

“Mr. Healy contributes to Irish literature a valuable
volume.”—_Sheffield Independent._

“Elaborate in its thorough investigation of the historical side....
Mr. Healy’s book is a formidable impeachment of one more chapter in
the horrid story of English mis-government in Ireland.”—_Yorkshire
Observer._

“Mr. Healy has written a very elaborate treatise.... Is, indeed, a
most scholarly essay, the result of exhaustive research.”—_Yorkshire
Post._

“It is evidently the result of a wonderful amount of labour in
delving among official and legal records, and the student of
Irish affairs will find that the author has collected a mass
of matter not to be found elsewhere except at the cost of much
trouble.”—_Nottingham Guardian._

“Learned and comprehensive as it is, the book is most interesting
throughout.”—_Belfast News-Letter._

“The book is a monument of the sort of painstaking industry that
most orators shirk in favour of easier-won bravura effects. ‘Stolen
Waters’ is less a fiery philippic than a sober historico-legal
study of a phase of Irish history, a solid piece of research work
of which we have had all too little in this country. Mr. Healy is a
formidable tracker, combining the pertinacity of the Red Indian with
the ingenuity of Sherlock Holmes.... Even the layman must realise the
patient and laborious scholarship that has gone to the making of this
book, and cannot fail to be impressed by his power of marshalling
great unwieldy masses of facts and the subtlety and dexterity of his
analysis.... It abounds in strange contrasts and dramatic surprises,
unravels a tangled tale of corruption and chicanery that might have
inspired a score of novels of intrigue, and links up in a startling
fashion the events of three hundred years ago with the happenings of
the day before yesterday.”—_Northern Whig._

“The compiling of Mr. Healy’s book was about as hard and as
distasteful work as any historian could undertake. He had to delve
into records and wade through State papers practically untouched
since the day they were written. And when the facts were revealed he
had to piece them together the way one would reconstruct a jig-saw
puzzle. All this infinite toil and trouble has been faced....
Mr. Healy’s book, with its wealth of historical lore and its
fascinating if grim tale of the way the Plantation of Ulster was
carried.”—_Ulster Guardian (Belfast)._

“Mr. Healy’s remarkable book.”—_Irish Independent._

“One of the most valuable practical contributions ever made to the
as-yet-unwritten history of Ireland.... He has done more than any man
since Lecky to furnish the Irish Gibbon of the future with new light
on the most obscure problems of the Ulster Plantation.... As a mere
collection of quotations he would have produced a book of enthralling
interest. The connecting narrative in which he strings them together
is worthy of Mr. Healy’s clear-cut, caustic, and vigorous English at
its best. Indeed, his style seems to have caught a new charm of Old
Testament austerity. The book will be a _Memoire pour Servir_ of the
highest service to the students of Irish history.”—_Cork Free Press._

“Mr. Healy has taken much trouble in using the original documents....
A great wealth of evidence, giving careful reference.”—_Church of
Ireland Gazette._

“Full digestion of its contents leads one to the conclusion that, if
not a novel, it is at least a good deal more interesting than many
such pieces of literature.... The erudite and witty pages of Mr.
Healy.... The many sidelights thrown on history by the painstaking
researches of the author.”—_Journal of the Ivernian Society._

“The story Mr. Healy’s valuable work tells, and tells well.... No
one who peruses the work—no matter what judgment he may form upon
the argument it contains—will be likely to lay it down without
an expression of admiration for the almost marvellous ability
and industry which have been devoted to its production.... The
preparation of the volume must have involved an enormous amount
of labour and research. In France it would be crowned by the
Academy.”—_The Irish Catholic._

“Mr. Healy’s most interesting book.... Contains on every page the
evidence of unending pains and research, is full of sidelights
upon Irish history.... The erudite, yet fascinating, pages of Mr.
Healy.”—_Catholic Book Notes._

“A notable volume.... The book is a monument of patient
research.”—_Manchester Weekly Times._

“Mr. Healy has written a remarkable book which is of considerable
interest.... The whole story is one of absorbing historic
interest.”—_The Fish Trades Gazette._

“Mr. Healy has devoted much time to research, and he has produced a
fascinating story.”—_Natal Mercury._

“What will please the general reader in ‘Stolen Waters’ is the
incidental information, the look-as-you-go glimpses at the great
Irish chieftains and clans.... Information of an unusual historical
character.—_Chicago Inter-Ocean._

“The volume is important from a historical and legal standpoint....
Mr. Healy’s interesting book.—_Boston Globe._

“Mr. Healy’s long but interesting narrative.”—_Catholic University
Bulletin (Washington)._

“A learned work.... If the decision of the House of Lords is proved
to be based on documents that are either forgeries or letters patent
obtained by a criminal act, then legislation would at once be
introduced to deal with the matter.”—_Contemporary Review._

“Proves the patience of the writer, who gives us a narrative of
historical interest as well as a work of real legal worth.... Many
would surmise that a work on such a topic must be necessarily a
‘dry-as-dust’ book. We have found it interesting indeed. We do not
think it possible to get a real insight into the Irish questions that
loom so very large in politics to-day without reading of some of the
methods adopted in ‘settling Ireland’ in Tudor times. The earlier
chapters of this learned work give some valuable information on those
matters. Historical and legal students will be indebted to the author
for so many quotations of rather inaccessible documents.”—_Western
Morning News._

“Of decided value to students of Irish history, for its pages show
the chicanery and thirst for plunder that have been dominant in the
past government of Ireland.”—_The Nation._

“Mr. T. M. Healy, M.P., is the raciest—and the bitterest—speaker in
public life. His abilities are altogether uncommon. But if he will
forgive us for saying so, he cannot write a book.”—_Birmingham Post._

“Dull, even at times ungrammatical, from a perusal of its pages we do
get a very clear idea of the terrible extent to which legal chicanery
was used by English officials to enrich themselves and their friends
during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.”—_Irish Times._

“For a full account one should read that epic of chicanery, Mr.
Healy’s ‘Stolen Waters’.”—_The New Witness._

“Mr. Healy has thrown some new light on an obscure and devious
by-path of Irish history.... The book is not pleasant reading, but
it illuminates the manner in which the English aristocracy has
‘governed’ Ireland.”—_Evening Post (New York)._

“A book which, founded though it is upon official records, will
challenge for rascality the most daring flights of fiction.... The
story is quite as thrilling as anything could be.... One of the most
readable books of our time.—_Sydney Freeman’s Journal._

“A monument to the extraordinary industry of Mr. Healy, and the time
and labour expended in the compilation.... Whether his law is good or
bad, affects not in the least the interest of his book, which is full
of fascinating details of Irish History.”—_Irish Law Times._

“We hope that it will be read, because the roots of many persistent
troubles in Ireland will never be understood until it is realised
that the cruelties committed under Elizabeth were accompanied—and
to a great degree followed in the next reign—by very clever and
systematic frauds upon the old inhabitants.”—_Saturday Review._

“The intrigues of past times, which are full of incident and
romance, written in such a way, make it a book to read carefully,
especially if one wants to understand the difficulties of Irish
history.”—_Scottish Historical Review._

“An interesting historical study which has its amusing sides.”—_New
York Sun._

“The author gives his authorities for every charge he brings.... The
hammer-like blows with which he clinches his statements are wearying
to a reader not as much absorbed as himself. But those who have the
patience to keep up with his argument ... will get many new lights
on the Tudor and Stuart period of Irish history. Especially clear is
the story of how the O’Neills were driven from Ulster.”—_American
Historical Review._

“This masterly volume of 500 pages ... sheds a luminous light on the
uses of legal machinery in the robbery of the Irish people. Mr. Healy
has the knowledge and ability to enrich his argument with a vast
amount of incidental information.”—_America._

“Sophistries, insinuations, mere rhetoric, and all kinds of
irrelevancies.... Prejudice and ignorance are invited to pronounce
judgment on what has already been determined by the highest judicial
authority.... But no mere list of mistakes could correct the false
impressions conveyed by innuendo, assumption, and special pleading.
It is simpler to regard the whole book as one vast _erratum_.”—_The
Times (London), 4th Sept., 1913
